README.md, before:

# PID-Motor-Control-
## Project Goal
  To design a method to successfully and accurately control a blender motor through an Arduino AC dimmer that will allow for the addition of PID code to minimize error. Due date: Dec 13, 2019
## Success Criteria
- The end goal for the entire project is to have a motor that maintains a constant speed no matter the level of reistance. This goal will be accomplished by combining our motor-AC dimmer complex with Justine and Ella's photoreflector sensor which will calculate the speed. 

- For our section of the project, our measures of success are: 
1. Being able to accurately control the speed of a motor using the AC dimmer
2. The AC dimmer ardcomplex to be efficently attached to the rest of the blender 

## Project Schedule 
 ### Individual Goals: 
 Georgia: Finish notebook, complete plan, 
 Basir: Finish notebook, create mock assembly, design fritzing, work on plan
 ### Weekly Goals:
Nov 26-Dec 1:
  Georgia- Finish basic outline of the plan and schedule. Research and come back from break with several ideas for setup. Finish notebook. 
  Basir- Finish notebook
Dec 1- Dec 6: 
  Georgia- Finish plan specifics. Decide on specific methods for setup, power, etc. Make materials list. Write criteria and constraints.
  Basir- Finish fritzng by Friday, work on mock assembly?
Dec 8- Dec 13:
  Georgia- Gather and plan materials, use list from plan. Begin setup. 
  Basir- Finish and check Solidworks mock assembly 
  
  ## Materials
  - RobotDyn 1 Channel AC Arduino Dimmer 
  -

Commit message:

Added a description of plan etc

README.md, after:

# PID-Motor-Control-
## Project Goal
  To design a method to successfully and accurately control a blender motor through an Arduino AC dimmer that will allow for the addition of PID code to minimize error. Due date: Dec 13, 2019
## Success Criteria
- The end goal for the entire project is to have a motor that maintains a constant speed no matter the level of reistance. This goal will be accomplished by combining our motor-AC dimmer complex with Justine and Ella's photoreflector sensor which will calculate the speed. 

- For our section of the project, our measures of success are: 
1. Being able to accurately control the speed of a motor using the AC dimmer and a potentiometer
2. The AC dimmer arduino complex can efficently attached to the rest of the blender 

## Project Schedule 
 ### Individual Goals: 
 Georgia: Finish notebook, complete plan, 
 Basir: Finish notebook, create mock assembly, design fritzing, work on plan
 ### Weekly Goals:
Nov 26-Dec 1:
  Georgia- Finish basic outline of the plan and schedule. Research and come back from break with several ideas for setup. Finish notebook. 
  Basir- Finish notebook
Dec 1- Dec 6: 
  Georgia- Finish plan specifics. Decide on specific methods for setup, power, etc. Make materials list. Write criteria and constraints.
  Basir- Finish fritzng by Friday, work on mock assembly?
Dec 8- Dec 13:
  Georgia- Gather and plan materials, use list from plan. Begin setup. 
  Basir- Finish and check Solidworks mock assembly 
  
  ## Materials
  - RobotDyn 1 Channel AC Arduino Dimmer (from Amazon)
  - Arduino UNO
  - Blender (motor and power cords are a part of this)
  - Wires 
  - Potentiometer 
  - Resistor
  - 3D printer and necessary material
  - Acrylic to be laser cut
  - Breadboard (or prototyping shield, depends on structure of 
  - Metal standoffs (for inside of 3D printed assembly)
  - Tools (Wire cutters, sautering equipment, etc)
  
  All materials currently needed should be easily obtainable from the part bins, the AC dimmer was ordered from Amazon and the blender belongs to Basir. If we need anything else in the future we will most likely use Amazon as our main resource, but we shouldn't need any other special components since we already have the dimmer and the blender with its motor, power wires, etc. 
  
  ## Description
  We are going to use the AC dimmer we got from Amazon to control and decrease the 120 V current running from a wall outlet into the blender motor. We are not going to print a new body for the blender but will instead create a box in SolidWorks that will attach to the back of the blender and contain the Arduino,breadboard, wiring, and dimmer. Wires will run from this into the original body of the blender in order to attach to the motor and the blender's power cable will extend from here and connect to a wall outlet. Considerations for this part include:
  -The potentiometer must be easily accessible on the outside of the blender so for now we should plan to sauter wires onto it, if we simply plug it into the breadboard will we not be able to access it once the assembly is added to the blender.
  - The addition of the assembly must not throw off the balance of the blender and in order to do this it should take up as little weight and space as possible. The issue of balance is one of the reasons why we chose to add the assemby to the back of the blender and not to one of the sides.
  - Cost is also an issue but this has been resolved by designing the component to include as little 3D printed material as possible. This means creating a skeleton with the 3D printer and then sliding in acrylic sides. The four columns that serve as the structure for this part are all hollow in the center and contain metal standoffs for ease of assembly. Photos are attached below after the more in-depth description.
  - Related to both the issues of balance and cost is the consideration of size. Our goal is to minimize size, for both of these reasons,  and in order to do decrease the size of the box we must decrease the size of its contents. We can do this by custom cutting wires and taking care to arrange all components as efficiently as possible. We also have to decide whether we should use a breadboard or a prototyping shield. Our decision regarding this will take into consideration size, efficiency of wiring, and arrangement with other components.
  Keeping in mind all of these considerations and constraints, Basir created a design for the box in SolidWorks that meets all criterai. INSERT BASIC DESCRIPTION. We figured it would easier to create the box and figure out how much space we had to work with before planning the wiring so we planned the box first.
